DEAD EUROPE   English Subs by yavass
April 2013
The racist comments and bigotry expressed
in this film DO NOT represent the beliefs
and ideology of the translator/uploader.
My father got me my first camera
He'd lead me down the streets as if he was
showing me this new country, Australia
...for the first time.
And then I got older......
And he became darker......
drunker.....
My brother Niko couldn't stand it
anymore, so he left
That's when dad retreated into himself,
into the world of his past
My parents got to this country
in bounds.....
....and our father made a swear
we'd never go back
Dad, I'll call you a cab...
Yeah....I love you too !
Say goodbye to your mother
for me
How did it go ? Is he still angry
about your exhibition ?
Don't worry about it !
You know how he's like !
I just can't wait to get
on the fucking plane !
You don't have to go.
You know it, don't you ?
Mom, you're kidding me, aren't you ?
Based on the book by Christos Tsiolkas,
author of "The Slap" and "Loaded-Head On"
Mom, it'll be fine
We have to do it in a church,
with a priest, with prayers.....
No, No ! Why ?
Dad was an atheist, his whole life. He
was a fucking communist, for Christ's sake
An Orthodox church service...is an
insult to everything he believed in
-Mom, he wanted to be cremated !
- No, no ! We don't do that !
We are a Greek family !!
He will have.....
Mom ! I'm taking his ashes
back to Greece !
- The Papigo (=a mountainous village)
- No, no ! You can't go there !
Mom, Isaac is going to Greece anyway...
Let Niko do it.
He's already in Europe !
Right...I left Niko messages.
He's not returning any of them
The blackness...it followed
your father and took him !
Bullshit !
It was an accident !
Don't go !
It'll come for you too !
- Grandma ??
-Yes, sweetheart ?
Is grandpa living in hell
and not with God ?
No darling
Grandpa is in heaven
looking over us
What about Jesus ?
Yeah, he's there too
Funny Jews and Moslems,
they go to hell
Don't listen to her Christos !
Grandma is just upset, OK ?
We can't say these things to him.
He's a child
It's what I believe !!
Well, yeah, but it's poison !
It's pure poison !
Because of the European Union, now
everything goes slowly - slowly
The prices go high.....
Athens in the beginning of the 2008-2010
crisis, when the city center collapsed
and was taken over by illegals
Then express your idea the Greek way....
Ôhink in another way
than the others.....
What drives you to take
these photos ?
The Exile-and-the-Return thing
is a bit old-fashioned
Well I suppose a lot of us in Australia
feel we've come from somewhere else
But you were born there.
You grew up there !
Yeah. And I feel like a tourist here
You've never been to Greece before ?
No one of my family has ever
come back
-You're the first ?
- Yeah
What are you so frightened of ?
Nothing.....
- How are you ?
- Yeah....good !
You're.....by yourself ?
I smoke my first cigerette at your uncle
Paul's house, in Melbourne. Remember ?
That's right !
- You threw up !
-Because the place was disgusting!
None of the rest
of the family came ?
No, they wanted to see you
at home first.
They're really upset about uncle Vasili
He didn't really talk about them
that much
-He didn't huh ?
- No
-They talk about him ?
- No !
I mean...... not often.
Not at all often !
- Weird.....
- Yeah...it's really weird
Fucking weird.....
My father asked me to give
this to you
It was Vasili's
My mom wanted to throw it away.
She hated the communists.
My brother's son is here ! You
should behave in a civilized manner !
Why are you such a coward ?
Tell him like a man that.....
I'd like to go to Australia.
The sun, the beaches.....
...the desert, surf and all this....
the models.....
Have you got a girlfriend ?
No, I'm gay
Do you have a boyfriend ?
No, no..no boyfriend.
Just lots of random sex
- But....he's gay !
- Cut it out !
So....how was the exhibition ?
OK...it was good...I think...
- It was good ?
- It was great !
Who buys these paintings ?
We'd buy one. Adriana, let's buy one
of Isaac's paintings !
They're not actually paintings.
It's.....photography......
Then, we'll buy three !
- Done !
- Done ! Which ones ?
I don't care. You choose....
You'd best keep drinking
So, what have you been doing
since you got here ?
Not much. I walked through
the city and took some photos
We don't go to the city anymore. It's
been taken over by the refugees
They're pigs !The government
should just get rid of them
Isn't that what the people used
to say about the Jews ?
Our family....we protected Jews
during the war !!
- We saved lives !
- Right...I've never heard that before
- Vasili never told you ?
- No
You'd think dad, of all people, would
have mentioned something like that ?
-And so...you're gonna go to Papigo ?
- Yeah, tomorrow
Adriana....please !
With Vasili's ashes ?
Your father.....
he just ran away !
Dad left because of the fascists !
What a lier !
Who stayed here and looked after
his elderly parents ?
.....took care of them ?
...paid for them ?
Giorgio did ! The younger brother did !
And where was Vasili ?
What are you talking about ?
Dad sent money
And now his son comes back here and
I have to have him in my home !
And he's just the same !
Lies and more lies !
Isaac !
I'm sorry !
- What the fuck ?
- I know .....
-Is she crazy ?
- Yes, yes. They're all crazy
- She hates me
-No, she doesn't hate you! She's just..
......stuck ! You know what I mean ?
I don't care about any of that shit !
Really !
- So, you're leaving ?
- Yeah
I could come with you....
if you want ?
This is Niko.
Leave a message
Niko, it's me, Isaac
Why ain't you returning my calls ?
I'm in Athens, I'm gonna go to Papigo
to scatter dad's ashes
I thought you'd be here already. You're
my brother, I need you to come with me
(=Park "Pedio Areos", a gay
cruising place, at your own risk !)
You alright ?
Yes.....alright
Come on !
Look, I'm gonna go. Can I buy you
some food....or something ?
No
Nice camera
Thanks !
You....?
.....take photo ?
Of you ?
- At my house ?
- Yeah !
Yeah, I can do that
OK
- I'm Isaac
- Yosef
I live not far
Come on ! Please !
Come on !
Hi ! I'm Isaac. He was being robbed
and I found him
Come !
- Coffee ?
-That would be great !
Natalia
You can take some more...?
Just like this ?
(=Aliens Temporary Residence Permit)
You want me to take
a passport portrait ?
Some more....
Shit !
Are you OK ?
You want a blowjob ?
No...no
- You want to fuck ?
- No...I was....
I was actually wondering  if it'd be OK
if I took some photos here ?
- Photos ?
- Yeah.....
OK
No, no, no !  Look....
To exhibit....
To show people
-Are you police ?
- No, no ! I'm not !
I'm not police
OK
You're fucking kidding me !
OK, I'm outta film
Look ! I'm gonna get a taxi, get
more film....I'll be back.  OK ?
You won't be back....
I will ! I promise !
Wait !
She's not my mother
Help me !
Please !
I'll be back in an hour
Yosef ?
Natalia ?
Yosef !!
Quiet ! Please, it's late !
Look I know, I'm sorry. I'm looking
for Natalia and Yosef ?
He left, long time ago
I was just with them....
- She's dead. Gone...
- Many months ago
- The boy is gone
- No, no !
Natalia !
Yosef !!
Hey Isaac !
I'm sorry. Andreas.....
-...the designated driver was late
- I had a big night
Andreas, this is my handsome and
talented cousin, Isaac....
...whom I told you about.
I can tell you right now I'm not staying
in any fucking youth hostel !
Well, if you're so worried about it,
maybe your handsome....
...talented, back-packing cousin
can drive us there !
- You can drive, can't you Isaac ?
- Yeah
Right, get in !
I'm wasted and you don't have a license
It' ll be fine.
Let's go ! Papigo !
Andreas'es father is also
from the mountains
You call me a peasant ?
I love peasant boys !
-Yes, for a dirty week end
- Now, that you're getting married...yes
Are you getting married ?
Yeah !
First time in the mountains ?
Yeah. It's my first time in Greece
Thanks !
Yulia told me about your father
What did she say ?
She said something about him
being cursed....?
You fucking kidding me ?
Thirsty ?
No
What the fuck are you doing Isaac ?
Nothing
I thought.......
It's nothing
We don't need all this junk !
What are you doing now ?
Isaac ?
I met this woman.
She knew your father
Coffee ? Isaac, coffee ?
No
What the fuck ?
This is fucking bullshit !
Isaac !
Relax !
Yosef ?
Yosef !!
You said you'd come back
Why didn't you help me ?
I feel like shit
You look beautiful
I need to give up drugs
So do I....
You want me to come with you ?
Well it doesn't look like
anyone else is coming
I wish by brother had turned up
Don't let that old woman
freak you out
I don't know.....
Dad, you know, never wanted to talk
about the mountains
- Maybe he was scared
- Yeah, right.....
You told Andreas
my father was cursed.
Why ?
Grandma said it !
Your father...he carried some kind of...
- You know....
- You don't believe that ! Do you ?
No !!
- Maybe !
-How can ya take any of that shit seriously?
- It's not that simple !
- Yeah, it is !
Then, who's Elias, the Jewish boy ?
My father said.....
How the fuck should I know ?
Here !
Put this on !
Do it for me !
Please ?
Do it for your father
I think I should just do this
on my own, you know....
I came because you're my cousin !
I appreciated it but you and
Andreas should go.
I'll get the bus back alone
ÏÊ
Thanks !
I'll see you
Vasilis Raftis
- Speak english !
- No english !
Why didn't you help me ?
This is Niko.
Leave a message. Thanks
Hey, it's me. I'm going to Paris,
to see Gerry
He's an old friend of dad's
And then I'm coming to Budapest Niko,
like it or not !
Isaac !
Isaac Raftis ?
Yeah
Let's go...
When he came to France we called him
Guillaume (=typical French name)
And he gave his
son a Jew's name !
- What's wrong with that ?
- Nothing !
I'm a Jew
Did my father ever talk about Greece
during the war ?
About someone the family protected ?
Did he mention a boy ?
A boy ? Yes,
he talked about a boy
Elias ?
I don't remember the name
Could it have been Elias ?
I'll tell you everything, but first
I need you to help me
How ?
There's someone I want you
to meet. She's a refugee.....
I want you to help her
get to Australia
I'll pay you. 5,000 Euros
- Look...I don't know
- I've got a passport for her....
...all you have to do is
accompany her !
So, how did he die ?
In his car.....
There was an accident. He went
into the back of a truck
- An accident ?
- Yeah
This is Amina. Amina...Isaac.
The man I was telling you about
Here...stay here, with Amina.
Look after her.
You can come for dinner,
at our house tonight.
Amina will show you how
to get there.
Don't touch her !
Don't lay a hand onto her !
- Coffee ?
- Sure. Thanks.
Please !
Is this your first time in Paris ?
This is my first time in Europe
Thanks
Did Gerry tell you about my situation ?
He said you're a refugee
He didn't tell you I'm pregnant ?
No
Well.....he has told me
about your father
They were in the
(Communist) Party together
They were the real, true radicals,
he said
Yeah, it sounds like him
He's dead now...your father ?
He died recently, yeah.
I'm very sorry
I wonder what your father would think
of Paris these days
He's my friend. He's gonna
help me go to Australia
You look worried
I guess I am
Why ?
I don't know. I came here
to put my dad to rest....in peace
- And it didn't happen ?
- Not at all !
There is this story....
Gerry knows it
Some Jewish boy....and
my dad apparently....
..had some kind of curse
Maybe he did !
You believe that stuff ?
- I see it. Again and again
- See what ?
When innocent blood is spilled,
the hate attaches to the guilty
Come on !
Are you making fun of me ?
No, I'm not making fun of you, I just
think it sounds like an excuse for revenge
Oh ! Ask the Jews about
using excuse for revenge...
- The Jews ?
- Isn't that what they do ?
Spill blood as an excuse
for revenge at Palestinians ?
What are you talking about ?
- The Holocaust
- Yeah ?
It shouldn't be used
to make others suffer
- I didn't say that it should...
- But Israel does !
They do what ever they want to people,
all because of the Holocaust
For Jews it's part of their culture
Christ died in their hands
- You don't believe that crap !
-It's written in your Bible !
But...that's just bullshit !
They murdered children
for their rituals !
They cooked them and ate them !
Christian children !
For fuck's sake ! It's like saying that
all Moslems are terrorists !
The Jews....they think
they're so special !
Are you laughing at me ?
Yeah, I'm laughing at you because
I think you're fucking insane
Who are you to laugh at me ?
Good morning Sir, Madam !
Good morning
Is everything alright madam ?
Just fine. We're just having a bit
of a disagreement. We're OK.
Your ID cards, please ?
Sorry, I don't speak french
Papers please !
- Yes, yes
- Yes
Here you are
Catch her !
Isaac, help me !
Good evening
I'm Isaac Raftis
Vasilis' son.
Gerry asked me to come
Isaac ! Come in please.
Amina ? How she is ?
She's alright ?
Yeah
Doesn't he remind you of Vasili, Leah ?
It's been a long time since
I've seen Vasili
- How is he ?
- Dead.....
How ?
A car accident
Too close to a truck
So, you knew my father too ?
I did
When he was in Paris ?
- Yes
-He was deeply involved in the movement
He left Greece because of the fascists
Is that what he told you ?
Why do you think he left ?
He left Greece to escape the past
and then.....
...he left Paris because the past
caught up with him
What was he escaping in his past ?
Himself
But no one escapes himself today
...even in the end
- What do you mean ?
- Well.....
You father killed himself,
didn't he ?
Where's your bathroom ?
This bitch betrayed us !
She betrayed Amina !
- So you sent her to hell !
- That factory belongs to me too !
I was helping her get away. She was
leaving with Isaac to Australia !
Run and chase you fucking Moslem whore ?
You won't be back....
You said you'd come back.....
Why didn't you help me ?
Elias !
Yosef....?
Hello ?
- It's me...
- Where are you ?
-I've been in Paris, with Gerry
- Who ?
You know...dad's old comrade.
He emailed me
- Gerry is dead, isn't he ?
- No mom....
...I was just at his house. He was
there with his wife, Leah
-Leah was there ?
- Mom...?
- ...I'm going to Budapest
- Isaac, come home !
No mom. I haven't seen Niko
in years
Isaac, you need to stay away
from your brother !
- What happened to Elias ?
- What ?
Elias, mom. What happened to Elias ?
The boy ?
What boy ?
You know whom  I'm talking about !
You can't help the past now.
Niko ?
For fuck's sake !
Isaac....
Why would you do that for ?
You weren't at the station !
Yeah
How long have you been using for ?
I thought you'd given up...
Just since dad.....
What the fuck are you doing here ?
What you.....?
I've been leaving messages !
When would you
fucking call me back ?
I didn't want to.
I need to talk to you
Yeah, I can see that
Christ...Niko !
Did you talk to
him before he died ?
Yeah
What did he say ?
He said I was a good son
What a cunt !
I don't know what is
happening to me Niko
You're in the right place.....
What's wrong ?
There's this boy....
I keep seeing him....it's the same boy
that I met in Athens, a refugee boy
Yeah....
Everywhere I go, there he is.
-That's because he's everywhere
- What ?
Boys like that, they're everywhere.
That's you !
A continent of lost souls
Have you taken any good photos
on your trip ?
-I'm not doing that anymore
-Why not ? You're fucking good at it
I think dad may have killed himself
I guess he had his demons
Dad helped the Jewish boy
during the war !
His name was Elias
Elias.....
Something happened to him.
Something terrible.....
-Do you believe in curses ?
- No
And neither do you !
Wanna go for a drink ?
Yeah
My boss King Kike is having some
people over.
-Kike ? (=racial slur for a Jew)
- That's what he calls himself
-You have a problem with that ?
- No
Beautiful Budapest, huh ?
So, how's your trip been ?
It's been interesting
- I've learned a lot
- Really ? What about ?
About you....
about my family....
Your family ?
What did you learn about your family ?
There was a boy.....
A Jewish boy ?
Elias ? Wasn't that his name ?
-Did Niko tell you that ?
- Of course he did
Everyone tell me these stories.
Everyone has one....
They all come to work for the Jew....
...and they all tell me the stories
of their families.....
...of the poor little Jewish
boys and girls.....
It's all bullshit
No one really protected the Jews
My whole family was taken
to the camps....
...and now, all these years later,
I live here and I thrive here.
Ironic, isn't it ?
I don't believe you !
You know about Elias !
What's that ?
Welcome to my office
Christ ! Niko !
It's not for much longer.
Sit ! Fuck him !
I'm paying off the day
What the fuck has happened to you ?
Fuck you, you self-righteous little
shit ! I didn't ask you to come here !
Fuck you, go home !
Go home and tell mom she's right about
the whole fucking curse and....
...Niko is a junkie and
porn-rich and well.
- Fuck you !
- Fuck you !!
It would kill her if
I told her the truth
Why don't you ?
You killed dad by coming to Europe !
What ?
You don't understand anything, do you ?
You're such a fucking baby !
Where were you when dad died, huh ?
Where the fuck were you ?
You think our father was so noble !
The great Vasilis fucking Raftis !
He was a murderer !
He killed that boy.... Elias.
- Am I supposed to believe that ?
- It's the fucking truth
Dad wasn't even old enough at the time
Yeah, he was. It was right at
the end of the war.
Bullshit !
Our family was supposed
to look after him
They promised his father they would.
They even took money for him
They hid him in the basement of
the old church and.....then....
...they betrayed him
That wasn't dad.
Dad wouldn't take any money !
No ?
He took him food though, that was his
job, taking scraps and eggs and shit...
And one day he stopped !
Do you know why he stopped ?
Because our great, sanctified,
grandmother Lucia....
...molested the little boy and
then fucked him
She was supposed to be looking after
him and she fucked him
Dad was sorry, but he didn't do anything
about it. Fucking nothing !
He stopped taking him food...
he didn't go see him....
...he didn't tell anybody anything...
What he did was wait for weeks.....
....untill he was sure that boy
would be dead
He climbed down inside that church....
It stunk of vomit, shit and blood.
And there was Elias. Lying there
like a skeleton
He'd eaten the moss of the bricks
and the soil from the ground.
He was still alive !
And dad picked up a rock and
smashed it into his skull....
He hit him again and again !
And Elias cursed him, sworn that
he would haunt him for ever.
Him and his sons.....
and his sons' sons !
The fucking past
All this shit !
Fucking Europe !!
Don't you wish some time that
not one Jew.....?
....ever walked the face of the Earth ?
Niko, this is for you darling
This one ?
You like him ?
Just arrived. Very fresh !
I'll pay you what ever you want
Good choice !
Come with me
Elias ?
You're Elias ?
Help me !
She's not my mother
You said you'll come back
Help me !
Why didn't you help me ?
Why didn't you help me ? !!
You !!
I'm gonna kill you !
I'm gonna tear you apart,
you fucking piece of shit !
Please.....
Don't hurt me....
You can help me...
Please.....
Help me please !
Please help me !!!!
I'm sorry....
DEAD EUROPE   English Subs by yavass
April 2013